                "messages": [
                    ["role": "assistant", "content": "You are going to assist in developing a series of study guides for a curated list of Psalms.  To create an effective study guide for a given psalm, it's important to approach it with both a deep understanding of the text and a creative method to engage readers. Here are some of the ways you can do this:  Textual Analysis: Begin by thoroughly analyzing the psalm. Understand its themes, literary devices, historical context, and theological implications.  Audience Identification: The study guides are primarily for individual study (most likely, the common parishioner), but are suitable for Bible study groups, as well, in that they contain both journaling prompts and group discussion topics. Each study guide  asks the reader to reflect on the applicability of the key points of the psalm to their personal life, and then recount past experiences when they may have identified with them and, if they have, to describe how they past experience affects them today.  They are then challenged to to make a plan to positively influence others by and through their experience as a means to foster a more intimate connection with the psalm, as well. This will shape the language and depth of the content.  Structure and Content: Decide on the structure of the guide. It could include an introduction, verse-by-verse analysis, reflection questions, practical applications, and perhaps a section on historical and cultural context.  Engaging Writing Style: Use an engaging and accessible writing style. The guide should be informative but also inviting and easy to understand. The Daily Bread is a good example of compact learning by concise wording.  Interactive Elements: Consider adding interactive elements such as reflection questions, journaling prompts, or group discussion topics.  "],
                    ["role": "user", "content": "There are five distinct sections: "
                     + "1. Task/Intent: Write a concise abstract of Psalm 23  that introduces its spiritual significance, making corollaries between its meaning and purpose and the Christian faith; it should be able to stand alone, and to allow readers to quickly determine the relevance and scope of the psalm. Use keywords common to biblical literary review that reflect the main topics or concepts.  Here is a more detailed summary of the abstract’s requirements:     - [ ] Briefly state the purpose or objective of the psalm and its spiritual significance       - [ ] Identify the key theme and summarize its main points     - [ ] Prove its modern relevance by and through corollaries to the Christian faith     - [ ] Keywords: Often, abstracts include a list of covered in the literature. This aids in the indexing and searching of the work."
                     + "2. Create a typological analysis of Psalm # and the New Testament. Provide the full text of Psalm 37. Use the King James Version. For every verse applicable, supply as many New Testament references that relate to that verse. In the case of groups of related verses, separate that group from the rest of the verses with a space before and after. The structure is this: <Title of Psalm><Abstract><Psalm #>{repeat}<Verse Group><Gospel References>{/repeat}]"
                     + "3. A synoptic overview of Psalm # distills its key themes, ideas, and arguments and lists each in a concise format that allows readers to grasp the essential content and context of the psalm.  The task is to compress Psalm # by identifying all of its main or key or significant points, and then produce a summary, abstract, synopsis, or description for each point,. The goal of assisting readers in their study with thus of a In a literature review, the key themes, ideas, and arguments of the original texts are distilled and presented in a concise format, allowing readers to grasp the essential content and context of the works being reviewed. This approach is particularly useful in academic settings, where understanding the breadth of research or thought on a subject is crucial. Summarize each point in one sentence, prefixing the summary with 'Summary: '. a summary, abstract, synopsis, or description for each point, is often referred to as a 'literature review' or a 'synoptic overview.' In a literature review, the key themes, ideas, and arguments of the original texts are distilled and presented in a concise format, allowing readers to grasp the essential content and context of the works being reviewed. This approach is particularly useful in academic settings, where understanding the breadth of research or thought on a subject is crucial.  Create abstract of Psalm # that covers the entire psalm with verses being grouped by relationship; precede the study guide with a title, which should read Revelations from Psalm 40  Starting new subsections: Group related verses and write a concise, one-line summary that describes the topical relationship between each verse in a group (set the text style of the header to bold).  Starting a part of each subsection:Next, fin with with a run-in subheading that summarizes the main point presented by the group of verses; add a reference to the Bible book, chapter and verses that comprise the group of verses (put the reference in parentheses).   Starting another part of the preceding subsection part: Continue on the same line rather than starting  a new line and add a 5 to 6 sentence summary that clarifies the intent and meaning of the group of verses in the main point (set the text style of the header to regular; both the topic sentence and the summary are one paragraph only). Repeat until the entire psalm (all verses) have been grouped into main points.   Starting another part of the preceding subsection part: After each main point, present 2 to 3 questions related to the verses that focus their attention to the most significant aspect(s) of the main point. Follow each question with an answer. The question should be in bold text; the answer should be in plain text. Write them both in the same paragraph.  Starting another part of the preceding subsection part: Following the questions and answers 'Focus' section, ask 2 to 3 questions that ask the reader to relay the applicability of the material in their personal experiences, primarily, by asking them to recount a past experience, asking them to describe how this experience affects them today, and how they might affect others by and through their experience; precede the questions with 'Reflect'.   'Focus' or 'Reflect' are formatted this way: 1) no bullets; 2) no numbers; 3) no punctuation; and, 4) bold type:  Title: insert 'Focus' here Bullet: insert question here Indented paragraph (no bullet): insert answer here (Repeat question and answer two to three times)   Questions, both for Focus and Reflect, are formatted this way: 1) no numbers; and, 2) use bullets for just the questions (the answers are simply indented).  Starting a new subsection, which completes the entire section: After all the main points are written, summarize the main points (or psalm) overall, highlighting their overall (or collective)  meaning and purpose, and connect that meaning and purpose with that of Christian faith and/or divine attributes of God (both communicable and incommunicable), as well as His purpose for man."
                     + "4. Describe all the ways Psalm # embodies or reflects God’s nature in two sections: 1. divine (incommunicable) attributes; and, 2. communicable  attributes. Include biblical references, if applicable. Use the King James Version."
                     + "5. I need a typological analysis of Psalm 1. I’m going to describe three things you need to know for the task: 1. Instructions, 2. A definition of typology, and 3. An example showing the kind of output I want:Create a typological analysis of Psalm # and the New Testament. Provide the full text of Psalm #. Use the King James Version. For every verse applicable, supply as many New Testament references that relate to that verse. In the case of groups of related verses, separate that group from the rest of the verses with a space before and after.The concept of applying typology to the Psalms is indeed a valid and practiced approach within the broader scope of biblical typology. The Psalms, like other parts of the Old Testament, are often read and interpreted through a typological lens, especially in Christian theology.In this context, certain Psalms are seen as prefiguring or foreshadowing New Testament events, themes, or figures, most notably Jesus Christ. For example, some Psalms are interpreted as Messianic Psalms, believed to foretell aspects of the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. These include Psalms like Psalm 22, which is often associated with Christ's crucifixion due to its vivid descriptions of suffering and deliverance.In typology, both the original scripture (often from the Old Testament, like the Psalms) and its fulfillment or echo in the New Testament are essential and interdependent. Typology is fundamentally about the relationship and connection between these two elements: the 'type' (in the Old Testament) and the 'antitype' (in the New Testament).Type (Old Testament): This is the original event, person, or institution that is considered a prophetic symbol or foreshadowing of something that is fulfilled in the New Testament. The Psalms, for instance, often contain imagery or themes that are later seen as types of Christ or Christian doctrine.Antitype (New Testament): This is the fulfillment or realization of the type found in the Old Testament. In Christian theology, many events in the life of Jesus Christ, teachings in the Epistles, or other New Testament narratives are seen as the antitypes that fulfill or complete the types from the Old Testament.In typological study, neither the type nor the antitype is emphasized at the expense of the other; instead, the focus is on the connection and continuity between them. The type is understood more deeply in light of its fulfillment in the antitype, and the antitype is seen as a completion or realization of the type. The interpretive journey moves from understanding the original context and meaning of the Old Testament type to seeing its fuller revelation or culmination in the New Testament antitype.Trust in God (Verses 1-11): This section, with its focus on trusting God and not fretting over evildoers, can be connected to New Testament teachings about faith and reliance on God, as seen in passages like Matthew 6:25-34, where Jesus speaks about not worrying about life's needs.The Downfall of the Wicked (Verses 12-22): The fate of the wicked as described in these verses can be typologically linked to New Testament teachings about the ultimate justice of God, such as in 2 Thessalonians 1:6-9, where it speaks of retribution for those who do not know God.Righteousness and Its Rewards (Verses 23-31): The blessings and protection promised to the righteous can be seen as a type for the spiritual blessings in Christ discussed in Ephesians 1:3 and the assurance of guidance and care for those who follow Christ, as promised in passages like John 10:27-28.Divine Justice and Salvation (Verses 32-40): The final verses emphasize God's deliverance and salvation for the righteous. This can be typologically connected to the concept of salvation through Christ and the final triumph over evil and death, as discussed in the New Testament, especially in books like Romans and Revelation.In typological interpretation, Psalm 37 is seen not only in its immediate context but also as a precursor to the fuller revelation of God's plan for humanity as revealed in the New Testament, particularly in the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. This Psalm, therefore, serves as a bridge between the Old and New Testaments, highlighting themes of faith, justice, and divine providence that are central to the entire biblical narrative."]
                ],
